Copyright © 2015—2017 Mullins Lab
Department of Microbiology
School of Medicine
University of Washington

———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION

All software and documentation is provided under the MIT license (below).

Some programs in this project download and use the the liftOver program from
UCSC's Genome Browser.  This program is free for non-commercial use, but must
be licensed separately for commercial use.  See the following two resources for
more information:

   http://hgdownload.cse.ucsc.edu/downloads.html#source_downloads
   https://genome-store.ucsc.edu/


DATASETS

The previously published integration site datasets included in this project
under the sources/ directory are copyright their respective authors and used in
accordance with their licenses.

Some programs in this project download genome annotation data from the NCBI.
This data is in the public domain.

All other datasets are provided under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International (CC BY 4.0) license, described briefly at

   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

and available in full at

   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

The MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
